# Isiah 62

You shall no more be termed Forsaken, and your land shall no more
be termed Desolate, but you shall be called **My Delight is in
Her**, and your land Married; for the Lord delights in you, and
your land shall be married. [4]

For as a young man marries a young woman, so shall your sons marry
you, and as the bridegroom rejoices of the bride, so shall your God
rejoice over you. [5]

On your walls, O Jerusalem, I have set watchmen; all the day and
all the night they shall never be silent. You who put the Lord in
remembrance, take no rest, [6] and give him no rest until he
establishes Jerusalem and makes it a praise in the earth. [7]

The Lord has sworn by his right hand and by his mighty arm: "I will
not again give your grain to be food for your enemies, and foreigners
shall not drink your wine for which you have labored; [8] but those
who garner it shall eat it and praise the Lord, and those who gather
it shall drink it in the courts of my sanctuary" [9]

Go through, go through the gates; prepare the way for the people;
build up, build up the high way; clear it of stones; **lift up a
signal over the peoples.** [10]

Behold, the Lord has proclaimed to the end of the earth: Say to the
daughter of Zion, **"Behold, your salvation comes; behold, his
reward is with him, and his recompense before him."** [11]

And they shall be called The Holy People, The Redeemed of the Lord;
and you shall be called Sought Out, **A City Not Forsaken**. [12]

<hr />

It is clear that God is doing a mighty work in San Francisco. We
pray for revival. San Francisco is a cultural epicenter and what
would it be like if San Francisco were known as a city of lovesick
Jesus worshipers who sat at His feet, listened to His teaching,
healed the sick, cast out daemons, and raised the dead, and other
great things. (Jer 29:5-7)

We are a small gathering who meet weekly for a couple of hours to
pray and worship Jesus –who intercedes to our Father (Rm 8:34)–
with the Holy Spirit (Rm 8:26). We our pleasure seekers, drinking
from the river of His delight (Ps. 36:8) And from that river we
will respond in deep prayer for the revival of San Francisco and
for our brothers and sisters in Christ to receive an increased
portion.
